Let's restate the problem. We want to move
the end effector pose smoothly from pose A
to pose B. What we're going to do now is to
determine the pose of the end effector at
each intermediate point. We have an interpolation
function, its arguments are the initial pose,
the final pose and a scalar variable S which
vary smoothly from 0 to 1. The result of this
function is the intermediate pose of the robot's
end effector. For each of these intermediate
poses we're going to apply the inverse kinematic
function to determine the joint angles that
corresponds to that particular value of S.
So in summary what we're doing is that in
every time step we're going to interpolate
the post using the top equation. Then we're
going to perform inverse kinematics. This
is a different algorithm than what we used
in the previous case. Previously we interpolated
the joint angles. In this case we're actually
interpolating the Cartesian pose. We're going
to carry on from where we left off from the
previous example. What we're going to do now
is Cartesian interpolated motion. I am going
to create a new workspace variable TS. This
is the interpolated Cartesian pose. I'm going
to use the function ctraj for Cartesian trajectory
I am going to phase in the initial pose, the
final pose and the number of time steps, create
a new variable in our workspace called TS.
We can see that this is a three dimensional
matrix, four rows, four columns and 50 planes.
So we can imagine as a set of 4x4 matrices
stacked one above the other. The final dimension indicates which particular time step we're talking about.
Let's have a look at the, all the rows and
all the columns of the first element. That's
the initial pose. We can look at the second
pose and the third pose and so on. Now I can
actually phase this three dimensional matrix
into the inverse kinematic function. Inverse
kinematics for a robot with 6 joints and a
spherical wrist. I'm going to pass in TS.
What it's going to do is to compute the joint
angles for every pose in this matrix. So the
result now QS, we can see is a matrix with
50 rows and 6 columns. It's computed, the
inverse kinematics, for every single pose
in the matrix TS. And we can go back to figure
1 and we can plot that. See what it looks
like. This is the Cartesian interpolated motion.
And coming back to figure 2 we can plot the
joint angles corresponding to that Cartesian
motion. We can see that they are broadly similar
to the trajectory that we got from joint interpolated
motion. They certainly start and end at the
same values but the path along the middle
of the trajectory, they follow is slightly
different. That difference is enough to change
the motion from being slightly curved in 3D
space to being a straight line in 3D space.
This is the result of the Cartesian interpolation
strategy. Here we can see the robot joint
angles varying smoothly from the initial pose
to the final pose over a period of two seconds.
If I compute the forward kinematics from each
of the intermediate set of joint angles and
plot the x coordinate versus the y coordinate.
I can see now that the robot end effector
is moving in a perfectly straight line from
A to B.
If I now apply forward kinematic function
to all the intermediate sets of joint angles,
I can determine the pose of the robot end
effector. If I plot the end effector x coordinate
against its y coordinate, I can see that the
end effector has now moved in a perfectly
straight line from pose A to pose B.
Similarly when I look at the orientation of
the end effector I can see that the pitch
and yew angles are equal to 0 for the entire
duration of the trajectory. So the tool orientation
remains constant and the tool tip has moved
in a straight line.
We achieved this just by changing the way
we do the interpolation or interpolating Cartesian
poses rather than robot joint angles. If we
compare the two sets of joint angle trajectories,
we can see that they're actually quite similar.
There is actually not very much variation
in the joint angles as a function of time
necessary to achieve this straight line end
effector motion versus the curbed end effector
motion.